feat(meshexternalservice): initial docs (#1816)
kumahq/kuma-website: app/_src/policies/meshexternalservice.md

Protocols that are supported are: `tcp`, `grpc`, `http`, `http2`.

```yaml
match:
  type: HostnameGenerator
  port: 4244
  protocol: tcp
```

### Endpoints

This section specifies the destination of the matched traffic.
It's possible to define IPs, DNS names and unix domain sockets.

```yaml
endpoints:
  - address: 1.1.1.1
    port: 12345
  - address: example.com
    port: 80
  - address: unix:///tmp/example.sock
```

### TLS

This section describes the TLS and verification behaviour.
You can define TLS version requirements, option to allow renegotiation, verification of SNI, SAN, custom CA and client certificate and key for server verification.
To disable parts of the verification you can set different `mode` - `SkipSAN`, `SkipCA`, `SkipAll`, `Secured` (default).

```yaml
tls:
  version:
    min: TLS12
    max: TLS13
  allowRenegotiation: false
  verification:
    mode: SkipCA
    serverName: "example.com"
    subjectAltNames:
      - type: Exact
        value: example.com
      - type: Prefix
        value: "spiffe://example.local/ns/local"
    caCert:
      inline: dGVzdA==
    clientCert:
      secret: "123"
    clientKey:
      secret: "123"
```

> When TLS is enabled but the CA is not set, the sidecar uses the default OS-specific CA. The user can override the default CA by setting the path in the environment variable `KUMA_DATAPLANE_RUNTIME_DYNAMIC_SYSTEM_CA_PATH` for the sidecar

Author: ```suggestion
When TLS is enabled but `caCert` is not set, the sidecar uses the [autodetected OS-specific CA](https://github.com/kumahq/kuma/blob/aba6518fca65bc7ab52e5328eb686a51a6f98a53/app/kuma-dp/pkg/dataplane/certificate/cert.go#L12). The user can override the default CA by setting the path in the environment variable `KUMA_DATAPLANE_RUNTIME_DYNAMIC_SYSTEM_CA_PATH` for the sidecar.
```

### DNS setup

To be able to access `MeshExternalService` via a hostname you need to define a [HostnameGenerator](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/hostnamegenerator) with a `meshExternalService` selector.

## Examples

For the following examples the following `HostnameGenerator` will be used:

> {% policy_yaml hostnamegenerator %}

Reviewer: I think we should add explanations to examples

Author: added

> For the following examples the following `HostnameGenerator` will be used:

Author: ```suggestion
For the examples below the following `HostnameGenerator` will be used:
```

---
title: MeshExternalService
---

{% warning %}

> Do **not** combine with [External Service](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/external-services).

Reviewer 2: what happens then? How should I migrate from ExternalService then if I can't combine it?

Author: I need to check what happens if you create a hostname generator that overshadows a domain hijacked by regular ExternalService.

Author: Added a note in DNS setup section to not hijack real DNS addresses.

{% endwarning %}

This resource allows services running inside the mesh to consume services that are not part of the mesh.
The `MeshExternalService` resource allows you to declare external resources instead of relying on [MeshPassthrough](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/meshpassthrough) or [passthrough mode](/docs/{{ page.version }}/networking/non-mesh-traffic#outgoing).

> In contrast to passthrough `MeshExternalService` behaves like a normal service as if it was part of the mesh.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In contrast to passthrough, `MeshExternalService` behaves like a normal service as if it is part of the mesh.
```

> In contrast to passthrough `MeshExternalService` behaves like a normal service as if it was part of the mesh.

Reviewer 2: as a first-time reader it's still not clear what's the difference and what it means that it's "normal service".

I would try to rephrase it so that mesh passthrough simply allows traffic to flow while MeshExternalService allows us to use policies like MeshTrafficPermission, MeshRateLimit etc.

Author: I removed that sentence because targeting does not work yet (I thought on egress it did) and added a note that the resource is experimental.

{% warning %}
Currently `MeshExternalService` resource does not support targeting by [targetRef policies](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/targetref).

> This limitation will be lifted in the next release.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This limitation will be lifted in a future release.
```

    port: 80
  - address: unix:///tmp/example.sock
```

### TLS

This section describes the TLS and verification behaviour.
You can define TLS version requirements, option to allow renegotiation, verification of SNI, SAN, custom CA and client certificate and key for server verification.
To disable parts of the verification you can set different `mode` - `SkipSAN`, `SkipCA`, `SkipAll`, `Secured` (default).

```yaml
tls:
  version:
    min: TLS12
    max: TLS13
  allowRenegotiation: false
  verification:
    mode: SkipCA
    serverName: "example.com"
    subjectAltNames:
      - type: Exact
        value: example.com
      - type: Prefix
        value: "spiffe://example.local/ns/local"
    caCert:
      inline: dGVzdA==
    clientCert:
      secret: "123"
    clientKey:
      secret: "123"
```

When TLS is enabled but `caCert` is not set, the sidecar uses the [autodetected OS-specific CA](https://github.com/kumahq/kuma/blob/aba6518fca65bc7ab52e5328eb686a51a6f98a53/app/kuma-dp/pkg/dataplane/certificate/cert.go#L12). The user can override the default CA by setting the path in the environment variable `KUMA_DATAPLANE_RUNTIME_DYNAMIC_SYSTEM_CA_PATH` for the sidecar.

> ### DNS setup

Reviewer: We could add some information about rich clients (http/tcp clients: like kafka) and link passthrough docs somewhere.

Author: I've added info + link, do you think it's enough?

      clientKey:

>         inline: 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

Reviewer 2: While this is ok, it would be cool to store this in Secret first. It's more realistic scenario. Up to you

Author: Just wanted to make this as easy as possible. I can add a note that in a real world scenario you want to use `secret` and store it as a k8s secret instead of inline, WDYT?

Reviewer 2: I think that works as well. Also link to Kuma secrets page.

Author: added a note above
